TsFile Docs (#247)
apache/incubator-iotdb: docs/Documentation/UserGuideV0.7.0/7-TsFile/2-Usage.md

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

> Now, you’re ready to start doing some awesome things with TsFile. This section demonstrates the detailed usage of TsFile.

Author: Fixed!

### Time-series Data

> A time-series is considered as a set of quadruples. A quadruple is defined as (deltaObject, measurement, time, value).

Author: Fixed!

* **deltaObject**: In many situations, a device which contains many sensors can be considered as a deltaObject.

> * **measurement**: A sensor can be considered as a measurement

Author: Imported.

	<tr><th>time</th><th>value</td><th>time</th><th>value</td><th>time</th><th>value</td>
	<tr><td>1</td><td>1.2</td><td>1</td><td>20</td><td>2</td><td>50</td></tr>
	<tr><td>3</td><td>1.4</td><td>2</td><td>20</td><td>4</td><td>51</td></tr>
	<tr><td>5</td><td>1.1</td><td>3</td><td>21</td><td>6</td><td>52</td></tr>
	<tr><td>7</td><td>1.8</td><td>4</td><td>20</td><td>8</td><td>53</td></tr>
</table>
<span>A set of time-series data</span>
</center>

**One Line of Data**: In many industrial applications, a device normally contains more than one sensor and these sensors may have values at a same timestamp, which is called one line of data. 

Formally, one line of data consists of a `deltaObject_id`, a timestamp which indicates the milliseconds since January 1, 1970, 00:00:00, and several data pairs composed of `measurement_id` and corresponding `value`. All data pairs in one line belong to this `deltaObject_id` and have the same timestamp. If one of the `measurements` doesn't have a `value` in the `timestamp`, use a space instead(Actually, TsFile does not store null values). Its format is shown as follow:

```
deltaObject_id, timestamp, <measurement_id, value>...
```

> An example is illustrated as follow. In this example, the data type of three measurements are  `INT32`, `FLOAT` and  `ENUMS` respectively.

Author: No, I've deleted the description about ENUMS.

```
device_1, 1490860659000, m1, 10, m2, 12.12, m3, MAN
```

### Writing TsFile

#### Generate a TsFile File.
A TsFile can be generated by following three steps and the complete code will be given in the section "Example for writing TsFile".

* First, use the interface to construct a TsFile instance.
	```
	public TsFileWriter(File file) throws WriteProcessException, IOException
	```
	
	**Parameters:**
	
	* file : The TsFile to write

* Second, add measurements

	```
	public void addMeasurement(MeasurementDescriptor measurementDescriptor) throws WriteProcessException
	```
	
	**Parameters:**
	
	* measurementDescriptor : The measurement information including name, data type and encoding
	
        > **Notice:** Although one measurement name can be used in multiple deltaObjects, the properties cannot be changed. I.e. 

>     it's not allowed to add one measurement name for multiple times with different type or encoding.

Author: This class uasge is revised.

      e.printStackTrace();
      System.out.println(e.getMessage());
    }
  }
}

```

### Interface for Reading TsFile

#### Before the Start

The set of time-series data in section "Time-series Data" is used here for a concrete introduction in this section. The set showed in the following table contains one deltaObject named "device\_1" with three measurements named "sensor\_1", "sensor\_2" and "sensor\_3". And the measurements has been simplified to do a simple illustration, which contains only 4 time-value pairs each.

<center>
<table style="text-align:center">
	<tr><th colspan="6">device_1</th></tr>
	<tr><th colspan="2">sensor_1</th><th colspan="2">sensor_2</th><th colspan="2">sensor_3</th></tr>
	<tr><th>time</th><th>value</td><th>time</th><th>value</td><th>time</th><th>value</td>
	<tr><td>1</td><td>1.2</td><td>1</td><td>20</td><td>2</td><td>50</td></tr>
	<tr><td>3</td><td>1.4</td><td>2</td><td>20</td><td>4</td><td>51</td></tr>
	<tr><td>5</td><td>1.1</td><td>3</td><td>21</td><td>6</td><td>52</td></tr>
	<tr><td>7</td><td>1.8</td><td>4</td><td>20</td><td>8</td><td>53</td></tr>
</table>
<span>A set of time-series data</span>
</center>

#### Definition of Path

> A path represents a series instance in TsFile. In the example given above, "device\_1.sensor\_1" is a path.

Reviewer: I would suggest a more specific description like:
A path is a dot-separated string which uniquely identifies a time-series in TsFile, e.g., "root.area\_1.device\_1.sensor\_1". The last section "sensor\_1" is called "measurementId" while the remaining parts "root.area\_1.device\_1" is called deviceId. As mentioned above, the same measurement in different devices has the same data type and ending, and devices are also unique.

In read interfaces, The parameter ```paths``` indicates the measurements to be selected.

Path instance can be easily constructed through the class ```Path```. For example:

```
Path p = new Path("device_1.sensor_1");
```

We will pass an ArrayList of paths for final query call to support multiple paths.

```
List<Path> paths = new ArrayList<Path>();
paths.add(new Path("device_1.sensor_1"));
paths.add(new Path("device_1.sensor_3"));
```

> > **Notice:** When constructing a Path, the format of the parameter should be "\<deltaObjectId\>.\<measurementId\>"

Reviewer: the format of the parameter should be a dot-separated string, the last part will be recognized as measurementId while the remaining parts will be recognized as deviceId.

#### Definition of Filter

##### Usage Scenario

> Filter is used in TsFile reading process to select data. 

Reviewer: The filter is used in TsFile reading process to select data satisfying a given condition.

	 	```
	 	Use the following relationships to get a `TimeFilter` object (value is a long int variable).
	    <center>
        <table style="text-align:center">
        	<tr><th>Relationship</th><th>Description</td></tr>
        	<tr><td>TimeFilter.eq(value)</td><td>Choose the time equal to the value</td>
        	<tr><td>TimeFilter.lt(value)</td><td>Choose the time less than the value</td>
        	<tr><td>TimeFilter.gt(value)</td><td>Choose the time greater than the value</td>
        	<tr><td>TimeFilter.ltEq(value)</td><td>Choose the time less than or equal to the value</td>
        	<tr><td>TimeFilter.gtEq(value)</td><td>Choose the time greater than or equal to the value</td>
        	<tr><td>TimeFilter.notEq(value)</td><td>Choose the time not equal to the value</td>
        	<tr><td>TimeFilter.not(TimeFilter)</td><td>Choose the time not satisfy another TimeFilter</td>
        </table>
        </center>
	 	
	 * ValueFilter: A filter for `value` in time-series data.
	 	
	 	```
	 	IExpression valueFilterExpr = new SingleSeriesExpression(Path, ValueFilter);
	 	```
		The usage of  `ValueFilter` is the same as using `TimeFilter`, just to make sure that the type of the value

> 		equal to the sensor(defined in the path).

Reviewer: equals to the measurement's

#### QueryDataset Interface

The query performed above will return a `QueryDataset` object.

Here's the useful interfaces for user.

* `bool hasNext();`

    Return true if this dataset still has elements.
* `List<Path> getPaths()`

    Get the paths in this data set.
* `List<TSDataType> getDataTypes();` 

   Get the data types. The class TSDataType is an enum class, the value will be one of the following:
   
       BOOLEAN,
       INT32,
       INT64,
       FLOAT,
       DOUBLE,
       TEXT;
 * `RowRecord next() throws IOException;`
 
    Get the next record.
    
    The class `RowRecord` consists of a `long` timestamp and a `List<Field>` for data in different sensors,
     we can use two getter methods to get them.
     
    ```
    long getTimestamp();
    List<Field> getFields();
    ```
    

>     To get data from one Field, use these method:

Reviewer: methods

        dPoint2 = new IntDataPoint("sensor_2", 10);
        dPoint3 = new IntDataPoint("sensor_3", 11);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint1);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint2);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint3);
        tsFileWriter.write(tsRecord);
    
        tsRecord = new TSRecord(7, "device_1");
        dPoint1 = new FloatDataPoint("sensor_1", 6.2f);
        dPoint2 = new IntDataPoint("sensor_2", 20);
        dPoint3 = new IntDataPoint("sensor_3", 21);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint1);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint2);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint3);
        tsFileWriter.write(tsRecord);
    
        tsRecord = new TSRecord(8, "device_1");
        dPoint1 = new FloatDataPoint("sensor_1", 9.2f);
        dPoint2 = new IntDataPoint("sensor_2", 30);
        dPoint3 = new IntDataPoint("sensor_3", 31);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint1);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint2);
        tsRecord.addTuple(dPoint3);
        tsFileWriter.write(tsRecord);
    
        // close TsFile
        tsFileWriter.close();        
    } catch (Throwable e) {
      e.printStackTrace();
      System.out.println(e.getMessage());
    }
  }
}

```

> ##### Writing TsFile directly without defining the schema by json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Writing TsFile with defining the schema by API
```

     
    ```
    long getTimestamp();
    List<Field> getFields();
    ```
    
    To get data from one Field, use these method:
    
    ```
    TSDataType getDataType();
    Object getObjectValue();
    ```

#### Example for reading an existing TsFile

You should install TsFile to your local maven repository.

See reference: [Installation](./1-Installation.md)

```java
/**
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 * or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 * distributed with this work for additional information
 * regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 * to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 * "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 * with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
 * software distributed under the License is distributed on an
 * "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
 * KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
 * specific language governing permissions and limitations
 * under the License.

>  */

Reviewer 2: license is not needed here

Author: I saw there were license statements in other .md files.

#### Definition of Path

A path is a dot-separated string which uniquely identifies a time-series in TsFile, e.g., "root.area_1.device_1.sensor_1". 
The last section "sensor_1" is called "measurementId" while the remaining parts "root.area_1.device_1" is called deviceId. 

> As mentioned above, the same measurement in different devices has the same data type and ending, and devices are also unique.

Reviewer: ending -> encoding, sorry.
